---
layout: post
title:  "TF Quadratic Programming"
tags: tensorflow algorithms QP
---
Using a penalty function technique, I used TensorFlow to solve
quadratic programming problems.

The penalty term used is proportional to 1/2 of the sum of the constraint errors squared
on the Lagranian function.
Initially the penalty is relaxed; as the solution is approached
the penalty term is tighted.
The key elements of the solution is a technique for estimating Lagranian
\\(\lambda\\) values.

I created a Jupyter notebook for
a sample problem with one equality constraint,
available [here](/notebooks/TF Single Equality Constrained Quadratic Optimizing.ipynb)
or viewed [online](https://github.com/cygnyx/cygnyx.github.io/blob/master/notebooks/TF Single Equality Constrained Quadratic Optimizing.ipynb) at GitHub.

For an inequality constraint, I used a similar technique but the Lagrangian \\(\lambda\\) values are non-negative.
The inequalities are represented as equalities along with an associated slack value.
An additional optimization technique is used to determine the slack values.

I created a Jupyter notebook for
a sample problem with one inequality constraint,
available [here](/notebooks/TF Single Inequality Constrained Quadratic Optimizing.ipynb)
or viewed [online](https://github.com/cygnyx/cygnyx.github.io/blob/master/notebooks/TF Single Inequality Constrained Quadratic Optimizing.ipynb) at GitHub.

Although these notebooks demostrate a single constraint,
the solutions generalize to as many constraints as needed.
Combining the techniques in the notebooks would produce an
optimizer that handles equalities and inequalities.

Additionally, there are no particular restrictions on the quadratic term.
In finance this represents the risk term.
Handling a more structured risk model is not a problem,
such as a model with factor risks and specific risks.

The mathematics supporting these techniques is well described in
[Numerical Optimization, Nocedal & Wright, 2006](http://www.bioinfo.org.cn/~wangchao/maa/Numerical_Optimization.pdf)
